---
title: "README.md"
author: "blockhead17"
date: "July 26, 2015"
output: html_document
---

#Purpose
This document describes the code inside `run_analysis.R`.

##R Packages and Data Used

###Packages Used
* data.table
* plyr
* dplyr

###Source Data Accessed
* subject_train.txt
* subject_test.txt
* y_train.txt
* y_test.txt
* x_train.txt
* x_test.txt
* activity_labels.txt
* features.txt

##How the program works
The program begins by determining if the source zip file exists and if not, it is retrieved from the a URL.  That zip file is unzipped if needed to reveal the source data files used in the program.  The data files are each read into R using the `read.table` command.  Data are joined together, relevant variables are selected, summary statistics generated by group and tidy dataset is created.

###Data Joins
Test data sets are joined to the bottom of the training data sets using `rbind()`.  Column names for measurements and activity names are merged with the raw data using `join` from the plyr package.

###Key Decisions
* The measurements data were trimmed to just include simple means and standard deviations.  This was defined as variables in the source data that contained "mean()" and "std()" as part of their names per the data documentation.
* It is assumed the data to be joined together are ordered correctly, so the `row.names` were brought into a variable to use as part of the join process.
* 

### Tidy Data Definition: 
Three key criteria:
* 1. Each variable you measure should be in one column. 
* 2. Each different observation of that variable should be in a different row.
* 3. There should be one table for each "kind" of variable. This tidy table contains all summary statistics of interest.
